Q: Sprites and textures in the standard HD+ Horn of the Abyss game look a bit more crisp and sharper than in the VCMI implementation. I'm running VCMI on Debian, whereas my HD+ HotA is running on Wine. Is this blurry rendering of the sprites/textures normal in VCMI?
A: If you're playing in fullscreen or using interface scaling then this might be possible. Right now VCMI uses primitive upscaling algorithm.

Q: It seems that VCMI uses a different type of font for most UI elements.
A: VCMI uses font that is part of Heroes 3 data files. Hota replaces that font with another one. Unfortunately their font is broken on non-English locales so our port of hota mod does not have that font.

Q: How to move on with this weird centaur monthly spawn, it blocked my path.
A: It is known issue in OH3 that creatures randomly spawning on monthly events completely block some maps. In VCMI you can avoid that by disabling special weeks. Set "allowRandomSpecialWeeks" in gameConfig.json to false.

Q: When waterwalking and got popups from map maker, the hero got freezed at middle of water, cannot move or doing anything.
A: This is actually bug in OH3 - water walk would trigger events placed by map maker on water. Fixed in VCMI for 1.4.

Q: Does VCMI support scripting?
A: No, VCMI does not offer any scripts yet. A long time ago there were some attempts at adding support for ERM and Lua, but they were not finished and are not usable. The team would like to add script support sometime in the future, however there are no specific plans at the moment.

Q: Why are all fights auto-battled?
A: Quick combat is default in options. HD Mod made it default, so we did too. Just turn it off via in-game options.

Q: Is it normal that I don't see giant map size?
A: Yes, if you ommited UI enchancements. Install vcmi-extras from Mods section.

Q: Is VCMI compatible with Heroes Chronicles?
A: At the moment - no.

Q: how do I update vcmi while keeping my saved games?
A: You can't. If you started map on some VCMI version then you should finish it on same version before update.

Q: Where does artifact appear when i type vcmiartifacts?
A: In currently selected hero's equipment. If you have town selected on adventure map it won't work.

Q: Guys, is it possible to edit vsgm1 save game file? I have been playing the AB camping, got to the map "maker of sorrow", beaten the enemy, but can't find the artifacts. I have played the map from the beginning many times, and lost nerves. I wonder if there is a way to edit a save game file (vsgm1) in order to give the hero necessary artifacts and just get over with it.
A: As for save editing - not really. You can use cheats, for example `vcmiartifacts armageddonsBlade` to avoid blocking issue, but game saves are not editable.

Q: How to attack with magogs on ground? It was 'g' in original.
A: You cannot. It is a hota feature not yet implemented in VCMI.

Q: , I was searching all over the place for tips on how to continue a multiplay game by loading a save — but with no luck. can you please point me to any guidance?
A: You should:
- Create new room
- Switch "new game" to "load game" toggle below
- Wait for your friend to join your room
- Start the game
This should bring you to "load game" screen in-game where you can select your save.

Q: Is there a way to minimize a "full screen classic" window on Windows using just the keyboard? I've just seen screen go black instead of minimizing game.
A: Usual approach is alt-tabbing into different app rather than minimizing the game. By default borderless fullscreen is recommended though, especially when using interface scaling.

Q: Can I set a default catapult for a Hero class? I want to make a custom catapult for a certain Hero.
A: You cannot, because hero class syntax doesn't include war machine entry. Having catapult is hardcoded for every hero.

Q: OMG Map zooming? I'm old and blind. How can I set that up?
A: Simply use use mouse wheel for zooming in and out.

Q: Is there an option to have the ressource display aligned to the left as in original?
A: It is not an original setup, it's a feature of HD Mod. In OH3 resource display takes entire width of the screen. In any case - there's no such option. Aligning resource bar to right was easier to do, so we went with this approach.

Q: Is there a way to change the creature abilities back to just being a single line description, rather than a grid?
A: No, VCMI dropped the old creature window layout as it was not effective in first place, and insufficient for displaying all available game mechanics.

Q: How to activate cheats on Android VCMI?
A: Tap on status bar (brown panel at the bottom). This should activate on-screen keyboard.

Q: Just installed HOTA and WOG on Android seem to be working. But not seeing new campaigns on either. Are HOTA or WOG campaigns available on mobile? Is factory available? 
A: HoTA campaigns are not supported yet, but are planned. WoG campaigns are not supported and most likely will never be, as they require complex ERM scripts which VCMI does not recreate.